Party Games for Kids & Parents
by Krystal Miller
Play parent/child games at your next party.
mom image by Mat Hayward from Fotolia.com
When planning a party or get together, be sure to include several games to keep partygoers entertained throughout the party. Play games that include both parents and kids to keep everyone involved in the party. Award prizes to the winners of each game to keep everyone ready for the next game.
Divide players into parent/kid teams of two, and have several eggs and spoons ready. Play this game outside, as it can get messy. Make a start line and another line about 25 feet apart. Have all parents stand at the starting line and all kids stand at the other line. Give each parent a spoon and an egg. On “go”, the parents race to their children with the eggs on the spoons. Participants can't use their hands to hold the eggs on spoons. If an egg is dropped, the parent must go back to the starting line and begin again. Once a parents reaches his child, the child will take the egg and spoon, and race back to the starting line. The first child that makes it back across the starting line wins the game.
Make several water balloons before the party starts and sit them in a bucket. Have all players get into parent/kid teams of two. Give each team one water balloon and have them stand about 5 feet apart, facing each other. When the host says, “go”, each player attempts to throw the water balloon to her partner. If the partner drops the balloon, that team is out of the game. For all teams that catch the balloon, they must take a giant step back and toss the balloon again. The team who can catch the water balloon from the furthest point away from one another wins the game.
Each child should pair up with one of his parents before the game starts. Give each team two rolls of toilet paper. On, “go," each parent uses the rolls of toilet paper to cover the child. Set a time limit of five minutes and when time is up, the child who is the most covered with toilet paper wins the game.
Divide all players into parent/child pairs and have them sit around a table. Give each team about 20 toothpicks and a bowl of mini marshmallows. On, “go”, the teams have 10 minutes to create the tallest marshmallow tower using the marshmallows and toothpicks. After 10 minutes, the team with the largest tower wins. You can also award prizes for the most creative and most disastrous towers.
   
 Copyright ©  Leaf Group Ltd., all rights reserved. // Leaf Group Lifestyle 
Birthday Party Games for Kids
by Stephen Andrew Baldwin
Giving trophies or favors to winners may cause a party meltdown with younger children who didn't win.
party because of the medal image by Ivonne Wierink from Fotolia.com
Planning a birthday party can be exhausting, with the cake, presents and invitations to organize. When it comes to actually running the party, it is best to choose games that require little supervision and can eat up a bit of time. It can also be a good idea to offer party favors, but for younger crowds it works best to provide one for every attendee rather than just for winners. For slightly older school children, games should reflect the sophistication of the players in strategy or complexity.
A scavenger hunt is a great way to entertain both small and large groups alike. The key to a good scavenger hunt is choosing items that will make for a fun search for the players involved. Scavenger hunts can be done in the house, the yard, the neighborhood, and even with digital cameras or video cameras. Parents can gauge the length of the scavenger hunt based on the lists they make, including how many items are on the list and how hard they are to find. Parents can also use riddles to confuse children, but this tends to result in groups coming in constantly for clues if they don't have an older person supervising them.
Team Freeze Tag is best with larger groups. The game itself can be played either during the day or at night in any open field or big back yard. Divide the kids into up to four separate groups. If you play during the day, parents should have different colored T-shirts for each team, or at night you can use colored glow necklaces so teams can see each other from across the field. At the start of the game, declare one color “it,” and have them set off to freeze everyone else. If someone is frozen, he can only be unfrozen if he is tagged by another member of his team. The game is over when an entire team is frozen, or at the end of a designated time limit.
Marshmallow Tower is a game played with toothpicks and marshmallows where players try and build the largest structure before time runs out. Though this might sound like a simple feat, players will soon realize the difficulty as towers will quickly bend and fold under their own weight long before reaching any great heights. The time limit is essential to declare a winner as otherwise players could simply wait for everyone else’s structures to fall and be declared the winner by default. Since every player is racing against time and gravity, the result is an exciting game that basically runs itself. Parents should provide numerous bags of marshmallows for large groups and can optionally provide prizes as well.
Snake in the Gutter is a bit like freeze tag, but with its own twist. The game is played by designating a few players, depending on your group size, to be snakes. Snakes should form two lines 5 to 6 feet apart, with the gap large enough for the other children to run through the middle. At the mark, have an adult yell "snakes in the gutter," and all of the other children have to run from one side of the canal to the other without getting tagged by any of the snakes. If any of the children are tagged, they will become snakes and have to join the line. The game is over when there is only one human player left standing, or until parents declare the round winners.
Stephen Andrew Baldwin became a freelance writer in Seattle, Wash. after graduating from Western Washington University with a Bachelor of Arts degree in creative writing. Focusing professionally on web copy, Baldwin has been writing professionally for more than two years, and has been published on a number of websites including eHow.com.
   
 Copyright ©  Leaf Group Ltd., all rights reserved. // Leaf Group Lifestyle 
Style

   
 Copyright ©  Leaf Group Ltd., all rights reserved. // Leaf Group Lifestyle 
Wedding Reception Game Ideas
by Kathy Adams
x
monkeybusinessimages/iStock/Getty Images
At a wedding reception, a good chance exists that many of the guests do not know each other, and the children present may be looking for something to do after a short while. Games serve as both an icebreaker for the adults and makeshift playtime for the children, keeping everyone in good spirits for the festive occasion.
Offer up a bunch of hula-hoops for a hula-hooping contest. Begin by telling guests that if they want the bride and groom to kiss, they have to be able to keep the hoop in motion for more than 30 seconds. Each time someone succeeds, the newlyweds kiss. Turn the event into a hula contest using as many hoops as you have on hand; the winner is the person who keeps his hoop moving the longest. Offer a prize such as a small bag of candies, a lei, or a wedding-themed plastic prize necklace.
For this game, the birthdays that come closest to the birthdays of the bride and groom at each table win a prize, such as the centerpiece, a photo with the bride and groom, or an extra slice of cake. If a child wins, she gets to be the leader for the next children's activity.
Give each child a pencil and a sheet of paper with all the letters of the alphabet pre-printed on the paper, along with a space next to each letter. Encourage the children to fill out the blank next to each letter with an item they spot in the reception hall, such as "cake" for the letter "C." For the difficult letters -- Q, X and Z -- encourage the kids to find a person in the room who has one of those letters in her name, using the name to fill in the space. The winner is the first person to fill in the entire alphabet or comes closest after a set amount of time.
This game begins by having all the guests pair off into teams. One participant of each pair holds a sheet of paper partially filled out with a story about the bride and groom, with some words left out. For instance, the story may begin: "Matt and Olivia met at **_ (place) on a (adjective) night in  (year). Olivia was working as a ** (occupation) and originally thought Matt was a  (noun)." The guest with the paper calls out for a place, adjective and year, following the sheet of paper, filling it in with the second person's response. Once every paper at each table is filled out, guests read them aloud for laughs.
Kathy Adams is an award-winning journalist and freelance writer who traveled the world handling numerous duties for music artists. She writes travel and budgeting tips and destination guides for USA Today, Travelocity and ForRent, among others. She enjoys exploring foreign locales and hiking off the beaten path stateside, snapping pics of wildlife and nature instead of selfies.
   
 Copyright ©  Leaf Group Ltd., all rights reserved. // Leaf Group Lifestyle 


   
 Copyright ©  Leaf Group Ltd., all rights reserved. // Leaf Group Lifestyle 
Weddings

   
 Copyright ©  Leaf Group Ltd., all rights reserved. // Leaf Group Lifestyle 
Relationships & Family

   
 Copyright ©  Leaf Group Ltd., all rights reserved. // Leaf Group Lifestyle 
Fun Easy Easter Games for 3 Year Olds
by Krystal Miller
Play fun Easter games with three-year-old children.
Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images
Easter games are the perfect way to burn off that sugar high that a group of three-year-old children has from eating too much candy. Create games that are easy for the youngsters to understand and award prizes to game winners as an incentive to play. Easter games are sure to be a big hit with three-year-olds, while creating lots of laughs and memorable moments.
Hide solid color eggs around the backyard or party area. You should have at least one of each color egg for each child. Tell the children when you shout a color they must go find that color of Easter egg. If you use plastic eggs, place a small prize inside the egg. If the child finds the correct color egg, he can keep the prize inside the egg.
Divide the little ones into two teams and have them stand at a starting line. Place a finish line about 15 feet away and place two Easter baskets on the line. Give each child an Easter egg (hard-boiled or plastic). When you say, “Go,” the first two players must hop (like an Easter bunny) to their team Easter baskets and place their eggs in the basket. Each must run back and tag the next player in line who has to do the same thing. The first team to finish the relay race and have all their eggs in the team basket wins the game.
Instead of hunting Easter eggs, have the children hunt Easter bunnies. You can use chocolate candy bunnies (wrapped) or plastic toy bunnies. Plastic toy bunnies are available at most party supply stores and online. Hide the bunnies all over the party area. Give each three-year-old a small plastic sack, such as a goody bag. When you say, “Hunt,” the children have to find as many bunnies as they can and place them in their bags. The player who finds the most bunnies wins a prize. All players can keep their bunnies to take home.
Use plastic eggs or cut eggs out of construction paper. If you use construction paper, cut the eggs in half. Hide all the egg halves and tell the children to find two egg pieces that match. If a child can bring you an egg match, award him a prize. Tell the children that the plastic eggs halves have to match, too.
   
 Copyright ©  Leaf Group Ltd., all rights reserved. // Leaf Group Lifestyle 
Games for Kids to Play at Baby Showers
by Pamela Fay
Kids will enjoy active games at a baby shower.
kids image by Siberia from Fotolia.com
Traditionally, baby showers were held only for women expecting their first baby. The etiquette surrounding baby showers has changed, however, and almost anything goes as long as the guest of honor is on board. These days, the shower may include male co-workers and spouses. It may also include the children of guests. You might even host a baby shower where kids are the main guests. For example, the mother-to-be may have older children, nieces and nephews who want to be part of the festivities. Perhaps the mom-to-be is a teacher. Some of the baby shower games that adults play are fine for kids, but it’s more fun if the games for children are planned with them in mind.
Kids enjoy active games, and if you can send them outside, everybody wins. Hide small, wrapped baby shower gifts such as small toys, pacifiers or a baby brush in the yard. Make a map of where the treasures are hidden in case the kids can’t find them all. The child who collects the most gifts wins. Of course, the gifts go to the mom-to-be.
This game can keep kids busy for a long time and is even appropriate for younger children. Seat everyone at a large table protected with a vinyl tablecloth, if needed. Place bags of large and miniature marshmallows on the table and provide straws, spaghetti or coffee stirrers cut to varying lengths. If the kids are young, have each one design something that a baby would use, such as a cradle, stroller, rocking chair or toy. Older kids may be divided into teams to work together. Give prizes for the most creative, most and least marshmallows used, and the one most likely to get the baby kicked out of the Mommy &amp; Me group!
Kids are more likely to remember what it’s like to be a small child than the adults at the baby shower. So, put them to work. You can use a video camera for this game, or the performance can be live. Divide pre-teens and teenagers into teams of two or more. Select one responsible person to be the videographer. Give the teams 10 minutes to prepare a skit. Each team will make a funny two-minute video for the mom-to-be instructing her on how to be a good mother from the baby’s perspective. The team with the funniest video, as selected by the mom-to-be, wins the Clio award.
Make 27 pairs of memory cards using stickers, clip art of baby items and pictures of babies. You can play the game with any number of players; however, if you have a very large group, you may want to have more than one game. Lay the cards out picture side down in a configuration of six rows with nine cards each. Play begins with one player turning over two cards in an attempt to find a match. If the cards match, that player keeps the cards and tries again. When no match is found, play continues with the player to the left. The player with the most matches wins.
Pamela Fay has been a business writer for more than 15 years, with work appearing in publications such as "Legal Times." She has also worked in the consulting arena since the 1990s, specializing in leadership development, human resources, change management and diversity. Fay holds an M.B.A. from Dartmouth College.
   
 Copyright ©  Leaf Group Ltd., all rights reserved. // Leaf Group Lifestyle 
Events & Entertaining

   
 Copyright ©  Leaf Group Ltd., all rights reserved. // Leaf Group Lifestyle 
Kids' Easter School Party Ideas
by Christi Aldridge
Celebrate Easter by playing holiday-related games with kids.
plastic easter eggs image by Joy Fera from Fotolia.com
Celebrate Easter with kids by planning some fun, age-appropriate activities. Easter isn't just about the egg hunt, so let kids play some other games to get into the spirit of the holiday. Once the kids are all hyped up on chocolate eggs, let them expend some energy playing Easter-themed games.
Everyone knows kids love decorating their own treats, so set up lots of fun decorations and let them go to town. This will work with either cupcakes or plain sugar cookies shaped like Easter eggs. Give each child a treat, then let them pile on colored frosting, sprinkles, candy, coconut and chocolate kisses. The kids get to eat their masterpieces when they are done decorating.
Get kids outside for a relay race. Divide them into teams, and give each team member a spoon. Each person must run to a marked distance holding the spoon with an Easter marshmallow candy, plastic egg or real egg balanced inside the spoon. Once he makes it back, he must hand the item to his teammate using only the spoon and continue. Whichever team wins can get an Easter treat, such as a small stuffed animals or a package of plastic eggs.
Draw a large rabbit on a piece of poster board. Make sure the bunny does not have a tail. Place double stick tape onto cotton balls, and let each child try to pin the tail on the bunny where it should go. Blindfold the kids before their turn. Whoever gets the closest to where the bunny's tail should be wins a small chocolate bunny to take home.
Place an egg on the floor. It can be a plastic or real egg. Each child will receive an egg of his own. It should look different from the egg on the floor. Players can take turns slowly rolling their eggs toward the egg on the floor. Whoever gets the closest to the egg without rolling it away wins.
Use large paper plates to make Easter bonnets. Let kids decorate the bonnets with stickers, foam cut outs, rhinestones, paper flowers, ribbon, construction paper and markers. Fold the paper plate a little to form a hat shape, and make a hole in each side of the plate with a hole punch. Thread elastic, ribbon or string through the holes and tie it. The bonnets can be tied on underneath the chin.
Christi Aldridge has been writing professionally since 2009. She graduated from Texas Christian University, where she was a featured contributor for several campus publications and won an award for best columnist.
   
 Copyright ©  Leaf Group Ltd., all rights reserved. // Leaf Group Lifestyle 


REPORTING CLAIMS OF COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT
We take claims of copyright infringement seriously. We will respond to notices of alleged copyright infringement that comply with applicable law. If you believe any materials accessible on or from this Site (the "Site") infringe your copyright, you may request removal of those materials from the Site by submitting written notification to our Copyright Agent (designated below). In accordance with the Online Copyright Infringement Liability Limitation Act of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (17 U.S.C. § 512) ("DMCA"), the written notice (the "DMCA Notice") must include substantially the following:
Our designated Copyright Agent to receive DMCA Notices is:
If you fail to comply with all of the requirements of Section 512(c)(3) of the DMCA, your DMCA Notice may not be effective. Please be aware that if you knowingly materially misrepresent that material or activity on the Site is infringing your copyright, you may be held liable for damages (including costs and attorneys' fees) under Section 512(f) of the DMCA.
 
COUNTER-NOTIFICATION PROCEDURES
If you believe that material you posted on the Site was removed or access to it was disabled by mistake or misidentification, you may file a counter-notification with us (a "Counter-Notice") by submitting written notification to our copyright agent (identified below). Pursuant to the DMCA, the Counter-Notice must include substantially the following:
Completed Counter-Notices should be sent to:
 LEAF GROUP LTD. ATTN: COPYRIGHT AGENT 1655 26TH Street SANTA MONICA, CA 90404 (310) 917-6400 (phone) (310) 564-7761 (facsimile) copyright@leafgroup.com 
The DMCA allows us to restore the removed content if the party filing the original DMCA Notice does not file a court action against you within ten business days of receiving the copy of your Counter-Notice. Please be aware that if you knowingly materially misrepresent that material or activity on the Site was removed or disabled by mistake or misidentification, you may be held liable for damages (including costs and attorneys' fees) under Section 512(f) of the DMCA.
REPEAT INFRINGERS
We implement a policy where, in appropriate circumstances, we will disable and/or terminate the accounts of users who are repeat infringers.
   
 Copyright ©  Leaf Group Ltd., all rights reserved. // Leaf Group Lifestyle 
Game Ideas for a 12-Year-Old's Beach Theme Party
by Ruth O'Neil
Plan your child’s 12th birthday on the beach or at least have a beach party if you cannot have the party on an actual beach. Play games with the party guests that give them the beach feeling. There are plenty of traditional party games that you can alter to a beach theme that are age-appropriate for 12 year olds.
Purchase some sand dollars that are all approximately the same size. You will need ten of them. Paint five red and five blue before the party and allow them to dry. Use a piece of poster board to make a tic-tac-toe board. You could also use foam board if you want something a little bit heavier. When it is time for the game, explain the instructions to the guests. Set the game board on a table and separate the group into two teams. Do not let guests see the game board once play begins until they have taken their own turn. Blindfold one person from the red team and allow him to place a red sand dollar on the board. He may then look at the board. Blindfold one member of the blue team and allow her to place a blue sand dollar on the board. The first team to get three in a row wins.
Buy some play sand if your party is at home. Use beach sand if you are at the beach. Fill two play buckets with sand and put a plastic spoon in each bucket. Divide the guests up into two teams. Place the buckets of sand at a starting point and an empty jar at another point. Guests must use the spoon to fill the jars with sand. They cannot use their other hand to help hold sand. If your jars are especially large, you may want to mark off the fill line with a piece of tape. The first team to fill their jar to the fill line wins.
Set up a volleyball net in your backyard or at the beach. At home you can use a regular beach ball, but at the beach you may need a regular volleyball, as the wind may not make it possible to play with a beach ball. Just allow the kids to have fun hitting the ball back and forth. This game does not need a lot of supervision for the 12 year olds. This gives you an opportunity to get food ready or prepare for the next game. This is also a good game to play at the beginning of the party when guests are arriving or at the end while guests are waiting for parents.
   
 Copyright ©  Leaf Group Ltd., all rights reserved. // Leaf Group Lifestyle 
Safari Scavenger Hunt Ideas for a Kid's Party
by Marion Sipe
Kids love a good challenge and feel proud when they accomplish something.
still life with safari helmet image by Nikolay Okhitin from Fotolia.com
A scavenger hunt is a great idea for a kids' party. It's a way to keep them entertained and let all the kids enjoy the game. Either split them into teams and let them compete to find out who can discover the treasure first, or let the whole lot of them run around seeking out clues and objects. Either way, each kid should be given the chance to read and figure out a clue, and each group should be accompanied by an adult to make sure everyone’s playing fair.
The more parental activity involved, the more intricate the game can be made, with parents lying in wait to ambush their children with squirt guns or crepe paper nets and stuffed lion attacks. The kids, of course, will escape and run on to the next clue, but the excitement of knowing there could be an ambush ahead will make the kids feel like their favorite adventurers.
Plastic pith helmets, canteens and water guns of their own will play into the theme and help the kids get into the game. Plus, with all that running around, kids can stay hydrated carrying their own canteens—or they can refill their flagging water gun ammunition. Encourage the kids with trail mix snacks hidden among the other treasures, but don’t overdo it as you want them to have a good meal after all this activity.
Clues with simple, age appropriate riddles will help you space out the actual treasures, letting you make the game as long or as short as you’d like. Make sure there’s an adult on hand which each group to gently nudge the kids toward the riddle’s answer, if they can’t seem to puzzle it out. Clues can be addressed to specific kids—especially if you know there’s a shy one or two in the group—or to all of them in general. The adults should never give the answers straight out, or let on that they know the answers, but instead encourage the kids to figure them out.
Make sure there are enough treasures to go around, and everyone feels as if they’ve come out of the hunt with something. If you split the hunters into teams, let each team find their treasure before declaring a winner and have a little something extra for the winner. If the treasure hunt is undertaken by the whole group, give out medals to everyone and reward all the kids for their participation. Suitable treasures or objects to find might include spyglasses, kaleidoscopes, binoculars, compasses, and stuffed animals like lions, zebras or hippos.
Make sure to have a meal ready for the end of the hunt. Whether it’s hamburgers or hot dogs, or pizza and sandwiches, have something ready for the kids to sit down to. This will help them transition out of the more active hunt, and let them wind down before its time to return them all home. If you’re planning this as a birthday party, the birthday cake could even been the final treasure.
Marion Sipe has been a freelance writer, poet and fantasy novelist since 2000. Her work appears in online publications including LIVESTRONG.COM and eHow Home and Garden. Her fiction has been publish in Alienskin Magazine, Alternatives, and the Flash! anthology. Homeschooled, she spent her youth flitting around the country.
   
 Copyright ©  Leaf Group Ltd., all rights reserved. // Leaf Group Lifestyle 
Bible Games for Children 6 to 12
by Annabelle Lee
Sticky notes help you throw together a quick game.
Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images
Bible games can reinforce lessons in a entertaining and interactive way. Keeping children's attention is easier when they are active and involved. In early-morning Sunday school, games also wake up the students and get them moving and thinking. If you take care when choosing games, they can be suitable for several age groups by making a few adjustments.
Create teams of two or three children, mixing older and younger students, for Bible charades. Have copies of different parables or Bible stories printed on index cards. Each team must act out the material and try to make the other team guess which parable or story it is enacting. You can score points for guessing the correct answer, or just play for fun with no points awarded.
Purchase two or three small basketball hoops with foam balls, and set them up against a wall. Using masking tape, make lines the children must stand behind: a closer line for 6- to 8-year-olds, a line slightly farther away for 9- and 10-year-olds, and one a little farther back for students who are 11 and 12. Divide the class into teams and line them up behind the masking tape. Take turns asking each group a question about a person in the Bible, or ask them to recite a memory verse they have learned or any other questions that will review the lesson. In the case of a correct answer, the child throws the basketball. and if he sinks the shot, his team gets one point. In case of an incorrect answer, the child moves to the end of the line. The game continues until a predetermined amount of points or time is reached.
If you need a quick game to fill in those last few minutes of class, break the children into two teams, evenly dispersing younger and older students, for the Scripture memory game. You will have written a recently learned memory verse, with one word on each sticky note. Give each team a set of these notes and see which team can put the verse together the fastest.
Break the class into three teams, with some younger and older students on each team. Place enough blanks on the board to spell out the words in a Bible verse, leaving spaces between the words. Give students play money to use for the duration of the game and have them take turns guessing the letters, if the child gets a letter correct, fill in the blanks for every instance of that letter in the saying, then pay him $1 for every blank he filled. If he wants a vowel, he must pay one $1, and he receives nothing if there are none of that vowel in the saying. Whoever guesses the puzzle receives $5. The player with the most money at the end of the game wins. You can play multiple rounds to make up a game.
Annabelle Lee has been working in the journalism field since 1990. She was a teacher and yearbook adviser for four years and holds two associate degrees from her local community college where she currently teaches computer classes. Lee also writes for a local newspaper and was a proofreader for McGraw-Hill.
   
 Copyright ©  Leaf Group Ltd., all rights reserved. // Leaf Group Lifestyle 
